Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we're working on animating the text so that when we hit play you will see that the text
kind of evaporates off their heads.
It happened very quickly so I'm want to show you in the prefab that when we go and play this animation
that is what's happening.
It's just evaporating away repeatedly in this particular instance.
Let's dive in and see how to create that kind of animation okay.
So we want to add a fade animation to add damage text.
The way to do this.
Make sure you are in your damage text prefab is to add an animator component so go to add components
and not an animator but an animation component sorry which is going to just deal with playing an animation
clip.
Now that does mean we need to play an animation clip or create an animation clip so go and open up your
animation tab.
I believe you do that through window animation and then animation tab like so and then you can hit the
big create button there.
Now I'm gonna save it in the same folder as our prefab.
I'm going to call it the damage text fade like so.
So we're using the damaged text fade as the name and then we want to do is select some properties that
we are going to animate so and property and in this case we are going to add eight for the text component
and I'm going to select the rect transform and we're going to select the anchored position as the thing
that we want to change we basically want to shift that text upwards.
And one other thing that I'm going to change maybe is going to be again the rect transform this time
the scale.
And then one more potential property that I want to change is going to be I want to change fade out
but we don't have anything that could fade out the moment.
So on the damaged text canvas I am going to add a component which is going to be our canvas group because
we know that the canvas group is able to fight things out from our fader.
We know this.
Going to add a property here and select the canvas group and we're going to add the alpha property.
Okay.
So now we've got key frames for all of these things the kind of initial values I believe might not hurt.
Just to add a key frame they are actually adding a key frame you can see it's in now in blue and that's
quite clear that it has saved all these values.
Now what I'm gonna do is over a 30 second period I want this to animate out.
So the way I'm gonna do this is basically just by pulling up the damaged text a little bit and not the
damage takes the actual text object itself within the canvas I'm going to pull that up I am going to
scale it as well like so so kind of fading up and evaporating a little bit and then also I am going
to I'm going to start by key frame those just in case I lose those changes as I got to my damaged text
and I go to the damage text object.
I change the Alfa here down to zero.
Okay so I'm just gonna go ahead and key frame that as well and I expect to see is that is kind of just
evaporating over that time and you can see that there are some key frames at the end here that I don't
want so I'm gonna go ahead and delete those because I just want to finish it with evaporating away.
Now one thing I'm going to do actually is just shift my key frames up here.
I want to create I want to stop it from fading out until we reach this point.
So I'm just gonna go into the damaged text again and I'm going to set my alpha to 1 at this stage and
just keep frame it.
So what we should see is it's just increasing in size going up and then it starts evaporating.
So you can't see it.
So it goes guys Alford out and I think that's looking okay.
Now we just need to make sure that animation is set to automatically play and if we go ahead and hit
play I'd expect to see these text objects evaporating it's not happening.
The reason being I haven't hooked up my animation clip.
So in that animation component we need to select a clip which is not showing me here.
So let's go over to our project browser and drag the clip in from there instead go ahead and hit play
now.
I would expect to see those text objects fading off their heads which indeed it is doing and I'm pretty
happy with that effect.
So that was a quickie on how to do your animation of this particular text object.
Now go ahead and make it your own.
Do the animation however you feel is appropriate for your particular game maybe spruce up the text use
some different fonts different colors and whatever you like just make this particular fade look pretty
and the next set you going to be looking at spawning this text dynamically see that.